# Project-427
7 MW Ullumkal Small Hydro Power Project at EDCL Power Projects Limited
_________________
NAME OF OWNER:
EDCL Power Projects Limited ,
EDCL House,1 A, Elgin Road,
Kolkata 700020
___________
The proposed project titled under UCR is “7 MW Small Hydro Power Project at M/s EDCL Power Projects
Limited by Energy Advisory Services”, which is a hydroelectric power project located in Chittar Taluk:
Rani, District Pathanamthitta, state Kerala. The project is an operational activity with continuous reduction
of GHG, currently being applied under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR).
_____________
Purpose of the project activity:
The project activity is a renewable power generation activity that incorporates the installation and
operation of Three hydro turbines, having aggregated installed capacity of 2 Nos *3.5 MW = 7 MW in
the Taluk: Rani, District Pathanamthitta, state Kerala - India. This project is promoted by M/s EDCL
Power Projects Limited. This project activity is also called as Ullumkal Small Hydro Power Project.
The hydroelectric both turbine No. was Synchronization on 11/11/2009 and declared the Commercial
Operation Date by KSEB: Kerala State Electricity Board Limited on Company Limited, with whom the
Power Purchase Agreement was concluded.
__________________
The project activity aims to harness kinetic energy of water (renewable source) from Kakkad river to
generate electricity. As the nature of the hydro project, no fossil fuel is involved for power generation in
the project activity, the electricity produced by the project is directly contributing to climate change
mitigation by reducing the anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere by
displacing an equivalent amount of power at the grid, which would otherwise have been generated from
fossil fuel-based power plants which are connected to the Indian grid system.
The net generated electricity from the project activity is sold to state electricity board through the Power
Purchase Agreement (PPA) signed between the project developer and the KSEB: Kerala State Electricity
Board Limited.
__________________
In pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by the project activity would have otherwise been
generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected power plants and by the addition of new
generation sources in the grid.
Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated annual net electricity generation i.e., 18,324 MWh/y
from the regional grid, which otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based
grid-connected power plants. The estimated annual average and the total CO2e emission reductions per
year, by the project activity are expected to be around 16,491 tCO2e.
______________
PRIOR HISTORY_
This Project Registered at Verra Registry – Monitoring period Sep 2008 – Feb 2010
(https://registry.verra.org/app/projectDetail/VCS/869) and Project Registered at CDM - Monitoring
Period March 2010 – Oct 2011. (https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/SGS-UKL1251372072.5/view).

The project activity is a small-scale hydro project and was not applied under any other GHG mechanism
prior to this registration with UCR Jan 2013 to Dec 2023. Also, the project has not been applied for any
other environmental crediting or certification mechanism for this crediting period. Hence the project will not cause double accounting of carbon credits (i.e., CoUs)
